Okay, so it's time to start building
the UI a little bit further.
We're gonna create some cards for
the celebrities, and
then use those in the game component.
And that means we're gonna
create a new component.
There's no a screen but
is a, A separate component.
So I'm gonna create a new directory
inside source/components.
And I'm gonna create
a component called card.svelte.
And then inside the game screen,
I'm gonna import that component.
And there's really no sorta conventions
about how you organize your components.
I've put this in a separate
components folder, but
you could also put it next to
the game thoughts component.
It's really up to your
personal preference, and
then we're just gonna
replace these with card
celeb = a, and
then the same thing down here.
Except with b.
I've got an error here.
What's happening?
I did that wrong.
It should be components/card per cell,
thank you, hold up.
And then the card component is obviously
gonna need to export a celeb prop.
And let's just do celeb.name again.
So we can see that something is happening.
Okay, that's working.
So let's flesh out the layout a little
bit of our main game component.
Sorry, yes the main game component.
CSS is not my forte,
so don't mind me if I just copy what
I figured out earlier this week.
Game is gonna use display grid and
we're gonna have three rows.
We're gonna have a row for
the celebrity on top, and
then a little row, and then a big row.
And the way that that works with
grid is we do 1 fr for fraction,
and then a set height is two ends,
and then another one fr.
And so those files are just gonna fill as
much space as left after you've subtracted
the two M's out of the middle.
And we're gonna give
that a little gap of 0.5,
and make it all the way big and
all the way tall.
But also give it a max width,
just as a way of
preventing the layout from getting crazy.
I'm gonna give it a minimum of 100% or
40 Vh and margin
0 auto just so that it stays in the middle
of the screen instead of wandering off.
Okay, so inside the gang component,
we have these three divs here,
and they all need to have
some styles in common.
So we're just gonna do game,
and then div is a descendant,
they're gonna use display flex,
With a line items center.
That's gonna give us nice vertical
centering when we're in desktop mode.
So that's the mobile layout taken care of.
But we also wanna have
a separate desktop layout,
which is gonna kick in
above 640 pixels wide.
So on mobile, we've got celebrity,
same celebrity on desktop,
one celebrity, same celebrity, because
we wanna use the space available to us.
And we're gonna get rid of the template
rows because it's all gonna be columnar at
this point, and had grid template columns.
And similarly we're gonna have 1fr,
8m's and then 1fr.
Now I found a really weird Safari bug
when I was building this earlier, so,
I'm just gonna add some extra styles,
max height: calc 100vh- 6m.
And one day I will build
a project that doesn't have
weird Safari bugs, but
today is not that day.
And in desktop mode,
then we want to take that button.
This button class equals same and
we're gonna give that a height of 8m's.
All right, so that is more or
less what we want.
Obviously it looks a little
bit wonky at the moment,
because we haven't put
the celebrity cards in yet.
But that's the layout that we're after.
So let's go over to the card style
component and start implementing that.
I'm gonna create an element to contain
everything called likecar.outer.
And then inside that,
we're gonna create a button.
And the reason that we're using a button
is because these are interactive elements.
They're things that the user
supposed to click on.
And a nice thing about using buttons is
we get a lot of accessibility properties
for free.
So right now on the diploid site,
if I'm someone who uses the keyboard
instead of the mouse for whatever
accessibility reasons I might have.
I can press the Tab key, and it will take
me between the elements on the page.
So if I think that David Herman
is the better paid,
then I can tap to his face and
then hit the spacebar.
And I'm wrong, but
I'm gonna get this one right.
Definitely, Eric Roberts,
let's get back on this, okay.
So we're gonna use buttons in all three
cases for both the celebrities and
the same price thing in the middle.
Button class = card inner.
And the button is gonna have
the background image that corresponds to
the celebrity image.
style = background- image.
And that's what that is gonna look like.
And then inside there,
we're gonna have these details elements.
I'm just gonna grab one of
those from the existing site.
Copy outer HTML.
And just tidy it up a little bit.
Get rid of the scoping classes.
And what we're left with
is some static markup,
that is specific to Jess Walton.
It's gonna replace that
with the properties
of our celebrity objects at
celeb.id celeb.name and celeb.type.
Then we need to add some styles.
So right now, this is unstyle.
So it's rendering all the correct
marker but it looks like garbage, so
we need to fix that.
First up, cut outs that needs to
fill the space available to it.
And then the button needs
to fill that space.
Okay, that works okay on mobile but
not on desktop yet.
Fix the background so
that it's centered in the middle
of the element and doesn't repeat.
And far that should be this.
Background size cover just means
that the background image is gonna
scale to fill the entire element,
regardless of the relative aspect ratio.
So if you have a square image and
you have a slightly oblong button,
then the image will expand outwards.
Did you see everything?
The position here is 50% 0,
that defines the position within
the image about which it gets scaled.
So 50% zero means, if you have an image
like this, it's gonna take this point
right here, and it's gonna expand from
that point outwards to fill the element.
Hide everything else
inside of the element,
take the default button styles off.
We don't want any padding and we don't
want the text to be central lined too.
We want it to be left lined.
I'm gonna go ahead and
steal some styles from the site.
Details, I'm just gonna grab
all of this stuff here.
Similarly, for the h2 element,
which is just his name here.
Out Loud that's the anchor tag.
Let's go up on, select that h2
just needs some margin, my sneezy.
And then the spirit which is
the type of celebrity as reported by
the celebrities themselves,
just grab all of that.
Add a new type selector.
And finally, we need to add a media query.
Again 640px cuz that's
the breakpoint that we've chosen.
And that is gonna change
the shape of the card.
So that on desktop it becomes a square
that always sits in the middle
of its container as opposed to
trying to fill the container.
And we do that with a little trick, we set
the height of the element to zero, but
then we use padding to expand it back out.
There is an aspect ratio
property come in to CSS but
it's not supported everywhere just yet.
So for now, we're gonna do
the padding aspect ratio trick.
Hopefully, okay,
that is giving us perfectly
square celebrity's on desktop,
and then on mobile.
Well, it looks a bit terrible on mobile.
I think I might have missed
something somewhere.
But let's not worry about that just yet.